README.md, before:

# ETL-Project-Olympics-Data
Analyzing data sets to show correlations between Olympic results and country population and GDP.

### Produced by:
* Kim Price
* Marti Reisinger
* Arnold Schultz

# Overview:
We will gather data sets that could be used to show correlations between Olympic results and country population and GDP.

## Data Sets:

 120 years of Olympic history: athletes and results: 45.5MB (2 files)
Link: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/heesoo37/120-years-of-olympic-history-athletes-and-results?resource=download
Description: Two CSV files containing the Olympic athletes for all countries for the last 120 years.  The first file contains the athletes and the Olympic Committee they represented.  The second file contains the translation of Olympic committee to country.

World Population: 185 KB
	Link: https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SP.POP.TOTL
Description: CSV containing the population for all countries from 1960 through 2021
	
World GDP: 269 KB
	Link:  https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/NY.GDP.MKTP.CD?end=2021&start=1960
Description: CSV containing the GDP for all countries from 1960 through 2021.


This project uses PostgreSQL.

# Instructions to recreate the database

 1. Clone the Repo https://github.com/Mreisinger1/ETL-Project-Olympics-Data
 1. Open PGAdmin PostgreSQL
 1. Create a new database named ``olympic_db``.
 1. Drop in the ``olympic_DB_Table_Create.sql`` file in and run it to create the tables.
 1. Run ``jupyter notebook`` and open ``Olympic_ETL.ipynb``.
 1. Verify and update as needed the `username` `port` and `password` in the `LOAD` section of the notebook to match PostgreSQL.
 1. Run the notebook.

**Note:** Not all countries are represented equally in population, gdp and olympic data files.

Commit message:

added scema pic to readme and reworded step 4

README.md, after:

# ETL-Project-Olympics-Data
Analyzing data sets to show correlations between Olympic results and country population and GDP.

### Produced by:
* Kim Price
* Marti Reisinger
* Arnold Schultz

# Overview:
We will gather data sets that could be used to show correlations between Olympic results and country population and GDP.

## Data Sets:

 120 years of Olympic history: athletes and results: 45.5MB (2 files)
Link: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/heesoo37/120-years-of-olympic-history-athletes-and-results?resource=download
Description: Two CSV files containing the Olympic athletes for all countries for the last 120 years.  The first file contains the athletes and the Olympic Committee they represented.  The second file contains the translation of Olympic committee to country.

World Population: 185 KB
	Link: https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SP.POP.TOTL
Description: CSV containing the population for all countries from 1960 through 2021
	
World GDP: 269 KB
	Link:  https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/NY.GDP.MKTP.CD?end=2021&start=1960
Description: CSV containing the GDP for all countries from 1960 through 2021.


This project uses PostgreSQL with the following scema:

![alt text](olympic_db_diagram.png)

# Instructions to recreate the database

 1. Clone the Repo https://github.com/Mreisinger1/ETL-Project-Olympics-Data
 1. Open PGAdmin PostgreSQL
 1. Create a new database named ``olympic_db``.
 1. Use the ``olympic_DB_Table_Create.sql`` file to create the tables.
 1. Run ``jupyter notebook`` and open ``Olympic_ETL.ipynb``.
 1. Verify and update as needed the `username` `port` and `password` in the `LOAD` section of the notebook to match PostgreSQL.
 1. Run the notebook.

**Note:** Not all countries are represented equally in population, gdp and olympic data files.
